There are two main reasons
why data types are important.
When doing calculations across multiple
fields and when blending data sets.
First, it's important when
doing any kind of calculations.
Let's take multiplying two fields
of data together as an example.
Multiplication assumes that we're
working with numeric fields, so
both of the fields need
to be number types.
Next if we're going to blend two data
sets together, we need the field or
fields that we're joining on
to be the same data type.
For instance, if we have a customer
file and a transaction file, both
with the CustomerID field, we can join
these files together using this field.
This would result in fields from
the customer file being appended
to each of the transaction records.
However, if the CustomerID field in one
file is a string and the CustomerID
field in another file is a number,
we'll have difficulty joining the data.
Depending on the software you're
using to join the data sets,
error messages may appear.